Release notes for v0.32.0 (#1992)
k6io/k6: release notes/v0.32.0.md

Besides the minor breaking changes (see the "Breaking changes" section below), it's now possible to send binary WS messages with the `socket.sendBinary()` function and to receive binary messages with the `binaryMessage` event handler:

  ```javascript
  const binFile = open('./file.pdf', 'b');

  export default function () {
    ws.connect('http://wshost/', function(socket) {
      socket.on('open', function() {
        socket.sendBinary(binFile);
      });

      socket.on('binaryMessage', function(msg) {
        // msg is an ArrayBuffer, so we can wrap it in a typed array directly.
        new Uint8Array(msg);
      });
    });
  }
  ```

### Official releases arm64 for MacOS and Linux ([#2000](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/2000))

We will now publish binary arm64 releases for MacOS and Linux for new k6 releases. Support for these new architectures should be stable, given Go's cross-platform compatibility, but please report any issues you experience.

## Other enhancements and UX improvements

- Options: k6 will now warn you on unrecognised configuration JS options in most cases instead of just silently ignoring them. ([#1919](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1919))

> - error_code: the tag `error_code` should now be set more accurately in some cases. [#1952](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1951)

Reviewer: It's a silly thing, but we're not consistent with the usage of parenthesis around PR references. @MStoykov would you mind adding them here and everywhere else they're missing?

  The previous default behavior of returning string from `encoding.b64decode()` can be replicated with a new optional `format` argument and a value of `"s"`: `encoding.b64decode("5bCP6aO85by-Li4=", "url", "s")`.
  Most of these shouldn't cause issues if the script is simply passing the values to another k6 API (e.g. opening a file as binary and passing it to `http.post()`), but in other cases the script will need to be modified to wrap the `ArrayBuffer` in a [typed array view](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Typed_arrays) and use that API instead.
  

### Deprecating official 32-bit binary releases ([#2000](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/2000))

We have stopped offering official builds for 32-bit Windows and Linux binaries. 

### Moved repo and renamed k6 Go module paths to `go.k6.io/k6` ([#2010](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/2010))

> We moved the repository location from https://github.com/loadimpact/k6 to https://github.com/k6io/k6. Instead of also moving the Go module paths to the new repo location, we decided to use custom ones with our own domain, for more control. This will be a breaking change for all [xk6](https://github.com/k6io/xk6) extensions, since they imports parts of k6 by source to register themselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We moved the repository location from https://github.com/loadimpact/k6 to https://github.com/k6io/k6. Instead of also moving the Go module paths to the new repo location, we decided to use custom ones with our own domain, for more control. This will be a breaking change for all [xk6](https://github.com/k6io/xk6) extensions, since they import parts of k6 by source to register themselves.
```

> ### New `.deb` and `.rpm` repo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### New `.deb` and `.rpm` repositories
```

  ```javascript
  const binFile = open('./file.pdf', 'b');

  export default function () {
    ws.connect('http://wshost/', function(socket) {
      socket.on('open', function() {
        socket.sendBinary(binFile);
      });

      socket.on('binaryMessage', function(msg) {
        // msg is an ArrayBuffer, so we can wrap it in a typed array directly.
        new Uint8Array(msg);
      });
    });
  }
  ```

### Official arm64 releases for macOS and Linux ([#2000](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/2000))

We will now publish binary arm64 releases for macOS and Linux for new k6 releases. Support for these new architectures should be stable, given Go's cross-platform compatibility, but please report any issues you experience.

## Other enhancements and UX improvements

- Options: k6 will now warn you on unrecognised configuration JS options in most cases instead of just silently ignoring them. ([#1919](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1919))
- error_code: the tag `error_code` should now be set more accurately in some cases. ([#1952](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1951))

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- TLS: dropped support for SSLv3 encryption. This was [dropped by Go](https://github.com/golang/go/issues/32716), but now we no longer consider `ssl3.0` a valid value for the `tlsVersion` k6 option. Thanks @codebien! ([#1897](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1897))

```

## Bugs fixed!

> - Arrival-rate executors could in some cases report twice as many used VUs than what was actually true. ([#1954](https://github.com/k6io/k6/issues/1954)) fixed by ([#1955](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1955))

Reviewer: This has too many parens :smile:

```suggestion
- Arrival-rate executors could in some cases report twice as many used VUs than what was actually true. ([#1954](https://github.com/k6io/k6/issues/1954) fixed by [#1955](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1955))
```

- In cases of an error while reading the response body, the newly added `responseCallback` in v0.31.0 would be evaluated with the returned status code, while the reported one would be `0`, as the response errored out and k6 does not return incomplete responses. Now `responseCallback` will also receive a `0` status. ([#1962](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1962))
- Fix Kafka output not being usable with the InfluxDB format after v0.31.0 changes. ([#1914](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1914))
- Error out with a user friendly message if `ramping-vus` executor would've not run a single iteration instead of just doing nothing. ([#1942](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1942))

## Internals

> - JS: Added a way for JS modules to have per VU initialization and object. This can also be used by xk6 modules by implementing `github.com/loadimpact/k6/js/modules#HasModuleInstancePerVU`. (Part of ([#1911](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1911)))

Author: ```suggestion
- JS: Added a way for JS modules to have per VU initialization and object. This can also be used by xk6 modules by implementing `github.com/loadimpact/k6/js/modules#HasModuleInstancePerVU`. (Part of [#1911](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1911))
```

wdyt @imiric

  It's now possible to send binary WS messages with the `socket.sendBinary()` function and to receive binary messages with the `binaryMessage` event handler:

  ```javascript
  const binFile = open('./file.pdf', 'b');

  export default function () {
    ws.connect('http://wshost/', function(socket) {
      socket.on('open', function() {
        socket.sendBinary(binFile);
      });

      socket.on('binaryMessage', function(msg) {
        // msg is an ArrayBuffer, so we can wrap it in a typed array directly.
        new Uint8Array(msg);
      });
    });
  }
  ```

  For the other backwards incompatible changes see below.

- Options: K6 should now warn you on unrecognised configuration js options in most cases instead of just silently ignoring them. [#1919](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1919)
- error_code: the tag `error_code` should now be set more accurately in some cases. [#1952](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1951)

## Bugs fixed!

- Arrival rate executors could in some cases report twice as many used VUs then what was true. [#1954](https://github.com/k6io/k6/issues/1954) fixed by [#1955](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1955)

> - The newly added `responseCallback` in v0.31.0, would in cases of a response erroring mid reading the body be evaluated with the returned status code, while the reported one will be `0` as the response errored out and k6 does not return half response. Now responseCallback will receive status `0`. [#1962](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1962)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In cases of an error while reading the response body, the newly added `responseCallback` in v0.31.0 would be evaluated with the returned status code, while the reported one would be `0` as the response errored out and k6 does not return incomplete responses. Now `responseCallback` will receive status `0`. ([#1962](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1962))
```

> - Fix kafka output not being usable with influxdb format after v0.31.0 changes. [#1914](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1914)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix Kafka output not being usable with the InfluxDB format after v0.31.0 changes. [#1914](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1914)
```

> - Error out with a nice message if `ramping-vus` executor would've not run a single iteration instead of just doing nothing. [#1942](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1942)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Error out with a user friendly message if `ramping-vus` executor would've not run a single iteration instead of just doing nothing. [#1942](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1942)
```

## Internals

> - JS: Way for js modules to have per VU initialization and object. This can also be used by xk6 modules by implementing `github.com/loadimpact/k6/js/modules#HasModuleInstancePerVU`. Part of [#1911](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1911)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- JS: Added a way for JS modules to have per VU initialization and object. This can also be used by xk6 modules by implementing `github.com/loadimpact/k6/js/modules#HasModuleInstancePerVU`. (Part of [#1911](https://github.com/k6io/k6/pull/1911))
```

## Breaking changes

> - JS: The expanded support for `ArrayBuffer`, continued from [v0.31.0](https://github.com/k6io/k6/releases/tag/v0.31.0), introduces some changes that might break current scripts that relied on the previous array of integers values returned by some of our internal APIs. Specifically these cases now return `ArrayBuffer` instead: `open(..., 'b')`, binary response bodies for requests that specified `responseType: 'binary'` (including when `http.batch()` is used), `crypto.randomBytes()`, `hasher.digest('binary')` and `encoding.b64decode()`.

Reviewer: Yes, I know I added this :smile:, but might be good to mention since `b64decode()` previously returned a string.

```suggestion
- JS: The expanded support for `ArrayBuffer`, continued from [v0.31.0](https://github.com/k6io/k6/releases/tag/v0.31.0), introduces some changes that might break current scripts that relied on the previous array of integers or string values returned by some of our internal APIs. Specifically these cases now return `ArrayBuffer` instead: `open(..., 'b')`, binary response bodies for requests that specified `responseType: 'binary'` (including when `http.batch()` is used), `crypto.randomBytes()`, `hasher.digest('binary')` and `encoding.b64decode()`.
```

> - JS: The expanded support for `ArrayBuffer`, continued from [v0.31.0](https://github.com/k6io/k6/releases/tag/v0.31.0), introduces some changes that might break current scripts that relied on the previous array of integers or string values returned by some of our internal APIs. Specifically these cases now return `ArrayBuffer` instead: `open(..., 'b')`, binary response bodies for requests that specified `responseType: 'binary'` (including when `http.batch()` is used), `crypto.randomBytes()`, `hasher.digest('binary')` and `encoding.b64decode()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- JS: The expanded support for `ArrayBuffer`, continued from [v0.31.0](https://github.com/k6io/k6/releases/tag/v0.31.0), introduces some changes that might break scripts that relied on the previous `array of integers` or `string` result types, returned by some of our JS APIs. Specifically these cases now return `ArrayBuffer` instead: `open(..., 'b')`, HTTP response bodies for requests that specified `responseType: 'binary'` (including when `http.batch()` is used), `crypto.randomBytes()`, `hasher.digest('binary')` and `encoding.b64decode()`.
```

  The previous default behavior of returning string from `encoding.b64decode()` can be replicated with a new optional `format` argument and a value of `"s"`: `encoding.b64decode("5bCP6aO85by-Li4=", "url", "s")`.

>   Most of these shouldn't cause issues if the script is simply passing the values to another k6 API (e.g. opening a file as binary and passing it to `http.post()`), but in other cases the script will need to be modified to wrap the `ArrayBuffer` in a [typed array](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Typed_arrays) and use that API instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Most of these shouldn't cause issues if the script is simply passing the values to another k6 API (e.g. opening a file as binary and passing it to `http.post()`), but in other cases the script will need to be modified to wrap the `ArrayBuffer` in a [typed array view](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Typed_arrays) and use that API instead.
```

>   Most of these shouldn't cause issues if the script is simply passing the values to another k6 API (e.g. opening a file as binary and passing it to `http.post()`), but in other cases the script will need to be modified to wrap the `ArrayBuffer` in a [typed array view](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Typed_arrays) and use that API instead.

Reviewer 2: seems I forgot to submit this originally :man_facepalming:
